In the last video we spoke about two big issues in getting TypeScript and Mongoose to work together.
We wrote out this model and everything looks good right now.
But as we saw, as soon as we start to try to create a user, we can start to run into some issues because
TypeScript is not checking the type of arguments we are passing to that constructor.
So in this video, we're going to figure out how we can solve issue number one.
How can we make sure that TypeScript is going to check the type of arguments that we are passing into
this user constructor?
To solve this.
I'm going to go back over to my editor.
I'm going to go up to the top of the file right after the import statement.
And I'm going to write out a new interface right here.
I'm going to put a comment on this interface just so we understand what it is doing as we go into the
future.
So I'm going to write out an comment that says an interface.
That describes the properties that are required to create a new user.
So in our case, to create a new user, you must provide an email that's a string and a password that
is a string.
That's what we want to have.
So I'm going to write out an interface that describes this object right here.
I'm going to call this interface user adders.
Adders is short for attributes.
So these are the attributes that are required to create a new user.
Inside this interface, I'll write out an email.
That is a string and a password.
That is a string.
We are now going to use this interface to make sure that anytime we try to create a new user, we are
passing in the correct set of attributes.
To do so, we're going to use a little trick, and this trick is going to be something that we're going
to keep in mind for all the rest of this application any time we try to create a new user.
Let me show you what we're going to do down at the very bottom right after we create our new user or
the actual user user model.
I'm going to define a new function called build user.
Any time that we want to create a new user, we are going to call this function instead of calling new
user.
So this is something this is a little trick.
This is a thing that you need to keep in mind.
All the mongoose documentation that you're ever going to look at or blog posts and so on are going to
say, Oh yeah, to create a new document you call new, then the name of your model and you pass in
the attributes.
We are not going to follow that because we cannot really do effective type checking with TypeScript
if we follow this pattern.
Instead, any time that we want to create a new user document, we are going to call this build user
function.
So that is the very important thing that you keep in mind going forward.
As the argument to this function, I'm going to receive an argument called adders and we're going to
put in a type here of user adders.
And then inside, all we're going to do is turn right around and return a new user that gets fed that
set of adders.
So really doing here is putting in this extra little step just to get TypeScript involved in this process
of creating a user.
Because we are never going to write out new user directly inside of our code.
Instead, we're going to call build user.
TypeScript is going to be aware of the set of arguments that must be provided to this function.
TypeScript knows we have to pass in an object that has an email.
That's a string and a password.
That's a string.
So now, so long as we only ever create a user by using this function, TypeScript is going to have
our back and make sure that we are providing the correct set of arguments.
Now we can try to test this out by writing some similar code to what I showed you just a little bit
ago when we were trying to call new user directly with a set of arguments that didn't make any sense.
If I call, build a user and pass in an object.
I'm going to throw in an email.
And a password.
If I now start to add in any additional arguments like let's say something like that right there, TypeScript
is going to jump in and say, nope, don't do that.
Awesome.
That is what we want.
We want TypeScript to jump in and tell us that we are making a mistake in creating a user.
If I ever make a typo in a property name.
So for example, if I accidentally type out pad once again, TypeScript has our back.
And if we ever tried to assign a property or provide a property that is of the incorrect type, TypeScript
is going to have our back as well.
So if I put in a type of number right here instead of a string, I script says, Hey, sorry, but this
really needs to be a string.
Okay.
So that's it.
That is how we are going to solve issue number one.
We're going to make sure that we do not call new user directly at any point in time, even though that
is what the official documentation says.
Instead, we are going to use this build user function because this is how we can get TypeScript involved
in the process of making sure we are passing in the correct set of attributes.
So we probably want to make sure that we export this function like so.
All right.
So now having said that, having repeated to you like four times, this is how we are going to create
a user.
I do want to throw out a little kind of uncertainty here.
So right now we've created this new function.
And now any time we want to create a user or kind of work with users in any way, we now have to import
two different things from this file that is not super convenient.
So even though this approach works right here, I'm wondering, is there some way that we can improve
it?
Is there some way that we can still make building a new user or creating a new user at least somewhat
similar to what we were doing before so that we don't have to have this really high mental burden as
engineers and have to memorize.
Oh yeah, I always need to import this build user function any time I want to create a new user.
So I'm thinking, although this definitely works, maybe we can take a very similar approach but express
it in a slightly different fashion just to make it a little bit more convenient for us.
So with that in mind, let's take another pause right here.
We're going to figure out how to rewrite this slightly to make it just a little bit more convenient
to use.